---
layout: post
title: "Habitual 2016"
comments: true
publish: true
---
2016 is coming in one day and this is probably the first time I'm actually writing a new year resolution before the new year. That is a good sign of changing.

Like the title says, I'm going to use 2016 to build up some habits that I tried to build up in the past but failed. It doesn't sound too complicated and perhaps a little bit too conservative for a man at my age, but I know it's going to be tough and tricky as I always believe that a man's greatest challenge in life is to try to face and change himself. In fact, I think that's a life long challenge if you want to be a better person at the end of the day. On the other hand, I know I could do this as I've achieved similar things before and most importantly, I believe in science and I know it's just a matter of finding the right approach to achieve your target.

I'm going to list what habits I want to build up in 2016 but I'm not going to discuss how I'll do it because I simply don't know at this stage. All I know at the moment is that I'm going to be struggling at the beginning as I'll have to fight the 'bad' habits, the laziness and other weakness of me as a human being. But that's OK. All I have to remember to do in such situations is reflecting regularly, adjust tactics and keeps working towards the targets. So here's the my list:

1. **Sleep early, wakeup early**. I have been consistently go to be after 12 o'clock in the night and struggling to get up in the morning. What I found out in the past 12 months is that my productivity is getting lower and lower at night, which is the only time that I can work on my own things and staying up late also makes my day feel less energetic.

    Having enough energy is the basis of performing day to day tasks (e.g. to achieve my other targets in this list) and crucial for being productive, consistently. Being more productive will allow me to achieve more in a day and that will build up over time. Yet, this habit is something I've tried many times in the past and is the most difficult for me. I'll tackle it again in 2016 with more determination, hopefully with better result at the end of the year as well.

 2. **Read book everyday**. "A mind needs books as a sword needs a whetstone if it is to keep its edge", Tyrion Lannister, Game of Throne. Simple as that. I have been reading more regularly for the past couple of months but it's not up to the degree of reading everyday. The target in 2016 is to read book for at least 1 hour everyday, the more the better of course. The challenge of reading for me is that I could easily get bored when half way through the book. To fix this, I'll have to change the way I read. I'll need to be able to read faster and be able to pickup those content that are most useful. Of course not finishing a book is not that bad after all because books could be dry and difficult to read so giving up on those books is simply stop wasting time, which is the right thing to do. I'll compile a list of books that I'll be reading initially.

 3. **Write regularly**. This is something I've never done before but this blog post is going to be the start of this habit. I know writing can be quite challenging and requires time and focus therefore I'm not going to put up a unrealistic expectation for me on this one in terms of the quality of my writing. However I do want to be able to post something on this blog on a regularly basis, say at least one post every two weeks. How well the post is articulated is not my first priority but instead I'll try to focus on writing about these things: programming, reading and how I've been doing on keeping myself on track.

 4. **Code everyday**. This of course means writing code outside work. I have a side project ([spending](https://github.com/yulucodebase/spending)) going on in my github repo and I'll try to produce something new and most importantly, meaningful, everyday. I'll resume my [LaunchSchool](http://www.LaunchSchool.com) curriculum in 2016 so I'm expecting to write a lot of Ruby code and these code will count towards my daily coding habit as well. The goal is not to build a nice github contribution graph (well, I admit that would be a nice byproduct) but keep practicing programming and keep the projects moving forward.

 That's it. I'm sure these will keep me fairly busy in 2016. Of course, there will be more things I need to do on a daily basis in 2016, but these are the things I feel really important for me in order to become a better person. The challenge is not doing each one of them but doing all of them everyday consistently. I'm sure there will be ups and downs but I shall not give up this time and I shall be smarter about it.
